Alright, in this video we're going to
take a look at what's called lambdas
with receivers and we're going to start
with what they are and to learn about
that we're going to take a look at the
with function now I've created a new
project, a new package etc. I've copied
the declaration of the employee class
and I also have a list here, we're going
to use this list later, but for now we're
going to take a look at the with
function and so we're going to start by
writing a function that writes the
numbers 1 to 100, separated by commas,
so I'll do that here and I'll say fun count
to 100 and this function is going to
return a string and we'll say  val
numbers equals stringbuilder and then
we'll say for i in 1 to 99 and I'll tell
you why why I'm only going up to 99 in a
minute and I'll say numbers dot append i
and then we want each number separated
by a comma, so we'll also append a comma
numbers dot append and we'll have a
comma then a space. Now we also want a
hundred but we don't want a comma after
100 and I don't want to have to check
for 100 in the loop because that
wouldn't be really efficient, so we know
we just want to add 100 at the end so
when we're done, we'll just append 100
and be done with it and then we'll
return numbers dot to string. So that's
our count to 100 function, so let's call
this function from the main function and
see what we get here, so I'll say print
line count to 100 because remember the
function returns a string and we'll run
and we get the numbers 1 to 100
separated by commas, so 1 to 100,
nothing fantastic going on here but
let's go back and look at the function now.
Now inside the function we're
referring to the numbers variable quite
a bit, so is there a way that we could
make this more concise and save on
typing? Can we write this function in a
way that we don't have to keep repeating
numbers numbers numbers? Well, yes we can
we can use the with function, when you
use the with function, you pass an
instance and the lambda to the function
and within the lambda, you don't have to
refer to the instance when you want to
call one of its member functions, you can
just call the member functions without
having to invoke them using the instance.
So let's take a look at what I mean here,
I'm going to copy and paste this
function so that we have this version
for comparison purposes, so I'll paste it
here and then I'm going to have to
obviously comment one of these versions
out, I'll comment out the lower one.
Okay, so now let's rewrite this version of the
function so that we're using with.
So we're going to keep the val numbers
equals stringbuilder because there's not
really anything we can do with that,
we need to declare the variable here for
now and I'm going to say return with and
then I'm going to pass numbers remember
that I said the with function takes an
instance and a lambda, so that's the
instance we're passing and then I'm
going to open up a lambda here and
intellij added the closing curly brace
for me and inside is our lambda.
Now, we've put the lambda outside the
parentheses, remember that I said in the
last video that when the lambda is the
last parameter, you can put it outside
the parentheses and that's what we've
done, because it's clearer, I mean we
could go like this, we could say comma
and then come down here and put a
parentheses and that that works but I
think it's clearer if you write it like
this and this is how you're going to see
it written this is the common
way of writing the lambda when it's the
last argument to a function. Okay, so now
that we're using the width function,
we don't have to refer to the instance when
we want to call one of its member
functions, so we can actually remove
numbers from here, we can remove numbers
we can remove numbers from here and here
we can remove the return statement
because now we're returning the result
of the with, so we'll just take this
whole thing out and now you can see that
this is more concise if we compare it to
the original version, where we're using
numbers we save on a little bit of
typing up here, so let's run and we'll
see that we still get our list of 1 to
100. Okay, so as I said inside the lambda
we're not using numbers when we invoke
one of its member functions, we're just
going ahead and calling the function,
so the technical way of saying this is that
with converts the instance that you pass
to it into a receiver and inside the
lambda, you don't have to refer to the
receiver object but you can and if you
want to we could do this we could say
this dot and if we do that this inside
the lambda is referring to the instance
that you pass to it, so this is the
numbers instance but you don't have to
do that and we're not going to. So once
again what's happening here is with is
converting this instance into the
receiver object for this lambda and
inside the lambda you don't have to
refer to the receiver object when you
want to invoke one of its member
functions or get the value of one of its
properties, we're not doing that here but
you wouldn't have to refer to it.
Now I said we couldn't really do anything
about this line, but we can we don't have
to do this in two steps, we could go like
that and just directly create a
string builder and pass that to with so
that works its equivalent thing.
Now, looking at this function now is there a
way that we can make this even more
concise? Think about this for a minute,
all this function is doing is returning a
value and what can we do when all the
function does is return a value,
it doesn't do anything else? Well we can use
an expression body, we don't have to use
a block body so I'm going to go ahead
and do that, so I'm going to say and take
this from here, take that away from there,
I'm going to use equals and we no longer
need the return statement and that works
and now that we're using an expression
body, we don't need the type either,
so there you go this is much more concise.
Now if we compare to our original
version, we can see now that we're having
to do a lot less typing and if we run,
we'll see that we get our usual one to
one hundred printed separated by commas.
Now, maybe you think the original version
is clearer to read and this is a
preference thing. You might think this is
clear what's going on and if you do you
can continue to write it in this way but
this is more concise it's more Kotlin
like. Okay, so that's the with function,
now we're going to take a look at
another function called apply, now the
apply function works the same way as with
but it always returns the reciever
object. So in our case instead of using
with and calling two strings within the
lambda we can use apply and apply will
return the stringbuilder and then we'll
call to string on the stringbuilder,
I'm going to copy this and paste it just
like I did before, so that you have all
the versions and I'll comment this one
out and then we'll go up here and so now
we're going to use apply rather than with,
so this time, we don't pass the instance
to apply, we use an instance and we
invoke apply on it. So I'm going to say
stringbuilder dot apply and in this case
you just pass it a lambda and now this
lambda will always return the instance
that you invoke apply with so we don't want to
call to string in here, we're going to
invoke it out here. So let's run now and
we'll see that we get our usual 1 to 100
printed. Alright, so that's how you use
receiver objects in lambdas, if you see
the term receiver object this is what
it's referring to, it's referring to the
object that's been passed to a lambda
and in some cases you don't have to
refer to that object explicitly. So now
let's take a look at return statements
and lambdas and now we're going to start
to use our employees list, so let's
suppose we want to find out if any of
the employees have the last name Wilson
now you're going to see when we look at
collections that there's a function you
can use it'll just tell you this right
away but let's pretend we don't know
about the function, the function is
called find. So let's pretend we don't
know about that function and we'll write
our own function and it will have the
function print out whether it finds the
employee or not so at least it's doing a
little more than just searching
collection and finding whether an
instance exists for that matches a
certain criteria. So we'll call the
function fun find by last name and it
will take our employees list, so we'll
say employees which is a list of
employee and it will also take the name
of the- name that we want to find and
then we'll just loop, will say for
employee in employees if the employees
last name equals the last name we're
looking for and we found an instance of
an employee that has a last name
whatever we've passed in, so we'll say
print line yes, there's an employee with
the last name last name
and we'll return because there's there's
no need to keep looping here, but if we
finish the loop and we haven't found an
employee with the matching last name
then we'll print nope
there is no employee with the last name
last name. So this is straightforward
stuff. So now let's call this function
and we'll call it with a last name we
know we're going to find we'll call it
with Wilson
and we'll call it with a last name that
we know is not in the list, so we'll say
find by last name employees in Wilson
and we'll say find by last name
employees and Smithson. So we know we're
going to find an employee with the last
name Wilson and we know we're not going
to find an employee with the last name
Smithson, so I'll go ahead and comment
out printing out the 100 numbers because
I don't think we need to see those again
and we'll run. And sure enough we see
that yes there is an employee with the
last name Wilson and note there's no
employee with the last name Smithson.
Now, of course we can improve this code here
and we're going to do that because we
want to use a lambda, so we'll use for
each instead, so we'll say employees dot
for each and we don't need that anymore,
so this is now going to be a lambda so
instead of using employee, we're going to
refer to each employee by it so we've
converted this to using a lambda now and
it's doing the same thing except we're
referring to each employee using it and
of course if we run, we're going to see
the same thing, but you'll see that we
used a return statement in the lambda
here and obviously when that return was
executed it didn't just returned from
the lambda, it also returned from the
function because if it hadn't also
returned from the function in the case
of Wilson, we would also be seeing the
nope line printed but we don't, we just
see the yes line printed. So what's
happening here is when the lambda is
inside the function, it's returning from
the lambda and the function. Now one
thing to know you can only use a return
like this where the lambda is going to
return from both the lambda and the
function when the function that is
taking the lambda is in lined.
Now in this case the lambda is being
used with the for each function, this is
actually being passed to the for each
function but since for each only takes a
lambda, we don't have to put it inside
parenthesis and so for each is accepting
the lambda and the for each function is inlined.
Now, in this case because the return is
returning from both the lambda and the
function, it's called a non-local return
so the question becomes is there a way
to make it a local return? Is there a way
to say, well actually we just want to
return from the lambda, we don't want
this behavior of it's returning from the
lambda and from the function and the
answer is yes there is and you can make
this a local return by using a label.
So if we want the return to return from the
for each but not from the function, so if
when the lambda returns we want it to
come out of the for reach and continue
executing within the function, we have to
label this lambda and we can do that
you've seen labels before I'll call
it return block and then use the at
symbol. So now this lambda is labeled
with return block and if we want to just
return from the lambda on the return,
we say return at return block and now
this return statement is a local return.
When it's executed, it will return from
the for each from the lambda but it will
not return from the function and so when
we find an employee with a matching last
name, the for each will stop but then
we'll continue executing the function so
we're not just going to see the yes line
we're also going to see the nope line
printed and we saw similar syntax like
this when we were labeling loops and
then using a label with continue and break
statements. Alright, so now when we run
we're going we're going to expect to see
you the yes and the nope line printed
for Wilson. So let's go ahead and run
and sure enough now that this is a local
return, we're seeing yes there's an
employee with the last name Wilson and
nope there's no employee with the last
name Wilson and we're seeing that
because the return is now just returning
from a lambda, it's not also returning
from the function. Now another time that
labels can come in handy is when you're
using nested with or apply statements,
so let's try one of those, we'll go back to
our main function and let's say we have
some string and we're going to call
apply on it and then inside the apply,
we have another string and we also want to
call apply on that string and then
inside here, we want to print line this
dot to lowercase. Now this to lowercase
call is going to operate on another
string because we're in an applied
lambda and in this lambda here,
the receiver object is another string,
it's not some string, so right now another
string will be lowercased and that's
fine in fact we don't even have to use
this, we can just use to lowercase and
this refers to the instance that will be
used to invoke to lowercase will be
another string. Now let's say that within
the supply block, we want to uppercase
some string, how would we do that?
This isn't going to work, upper case
because we're still in and other strings
apply block but let's say for some
reason we had to do the upper casing in
here, if we run now we'll see that we get
another string lower case and then
another string upper case and that's not
what we want, we can't use this because
that also applies to another string,
so how can we get to uppercase on some
string within the nested lambda here?
Well if you've guessed that we can use a
label, you're right. So we're going to
remove this and we're going to label
this apply block.
So we'll add a label to the outer apply
block and we'll call it some string at
and then down here if we want to
uppercase some string and not another
string, we just say this at some string
dot to uppercase so what we're saying
here is we want to lower case the
receiver object associated with the
local apply so that would be another
string. In here, we're saying that we want
to upper case the receiver object for
whatever lambda is associated with the
some string label. So we're going to
uppercase some string. So let's run now,
and we'll see that this time we see
another string lowercased and we see some
string uppercase. So this is another use
of labels with lambdas when you have
nested applies or withs you can label
the lambda and then inside one of the
nested lambda is you can refer to the
receiver object for an outer lambda.
So that's it for lambda expressions, now
we're going to start taking a look at
collections. I'll see you in the next video.